# 07_10_2020_01

## Q&A

### Question

#### ORY Product: Oathkeeper, Keto

#### Is there any way that we can change the Oathkeper flow?

### Answer

Write a pull request that submits the organizational structure that could be
part of Keto. It might be easier to ask for all the logic to be supported in
Keto.

Look if Keto can support what you are looking for and if it does not support
that then make a feature request. Easier to pull off outside of Kratos.

### Answer

It should be possible, it should be a feature in Oathkeeper. If it is not
possible please open a feature request; it is a very common/good use case.

---

### Question

#### ORY Product: Oathkeeper

#### Will there be multi domain support and multi domain login persistence?

### Answer

That is definitely something we are looking at. We need to figure out how to
implement this safely though. It will be a lot of work but it would be a very
important feature for us to have.

---

### Question

#### ORY Product: Hydra

#### What is the reasoning between having two database tables? Would it not be easier to merge the tables into one ? What is the design decision behind that?

---

# 07_10_2020_02

## Q&A

### Question

#### How do you generally approach a migration path, what can consumers of this library expect?

### Answer

We have extensive documentation on any breaking changes, if you sign up to the
newsletter you will get notified every time there is a new release.

We have elaborate descriptions of all changes in the newsletter, or on github.
The changelogs are in the documentation and also on github. Also with guides how
to do the upgrade/migration.

With helm charts its a manual process changing the version number at the moment.
We are looking to automate this in the near future.

[k8s issue #180](https://github.com/ory/k8s/issues/180)

---

### Question

#### ORY Product: Kratos, Hydra, Oathkeeper

#### Do you have plans to offer support the open source, selfhosted deployments?

We have been using Oathkeeper & Kratos for Auth. We are interested in support,
but our customers dont allow SaaS in this regard.

### Answer

We will focus on the cloud offering, it is easy to scale, easier to support. But
this request comes often, and we do want to help companies in this position.

We do want to offer solutions there so we could provide you with support in the
future. Best solution: Talk to [jared](jared@ory.sh), figure out what you need
and we will find a solution.

---

### Question

#### ORY Product: Hydra

#### Is there a config to have Hydra respond to /api/hydra for example?

I am deploying Hydra in Docker in AWS. I cant configure it to respond to a
specific URL, without route URL.

### Answer

Solution here is reverse proxy, like Oathkeeper.

If you do not use a reverse proxy, you have to do it with path rewrite
currently.

---

### Question

#### Will ORY open source stay open source or become proprietary?

### Answer

All projects that are currently open source, will remain open source. We have a
commitment to open source, that we still need to publish.

We will not go down the path of ElasticSearch. The monetization strategy that we
are following is running all the software as one consistent product with alot of
additional benefits as a cloud service.

But the core building blocks will remain free and open source. As we use Linux
and Kubernetes, we also use the ORY stack - which is open source.

We are also planning on having a foundation of sorts, but this is still in
planning.

---

## Comments

### Comment

Next big assignment for Patrick is implementation of Google Sansibar paper. This
will allow us to deploy multi-region without significant latency.

---

# 14_10_2020

## Q&A

### Question

#### ORY Project: Oathkeeper

#### My biggest concern is this big refactor on Oathkeeper concerning the Hydrator, for example [Issue 441](https://github.com/ory/oathkeeper/issues/441)

### Answer by Aeneas

So the original hydrator was more or less like an interim solution for the
project and the idea was always to have a pipeline where you do authentication,
hydration, authorization and then mutation.

So you've probably looked into the configuration system for remote Json, for
example, and I think its ultimately really not great to generate Json. So we
want to use JsonNet for all of the config stuff. And with the change we would
also introduce a new part to the pipeline, which would then be a dedicated
hydrator because I think it makes a lot of sense to add. Basically you get the
requests and then authenticate, add context, check for permissions and then you
take all of the data, massage it and put it into a token or something.

---

### Question

#### ORY Project: Kratos

#### When are you expecting to release the 0.5 version of Kratos?

### Answer

The way we do release is slow because the pipelines sometimes a little bit flaky
when it comes to releases as we do pre-releases. So we do for example the
pre-release where we see if all the pipelines are working, if the build is
successful and if all the tests are successful for the build pipeline, the
binary in a Docker image ect.

If that works and once that passes all tests we do the proper release. So the
fact that you're seeing the pre dot 0 release is a very good sign because it
means that we're working on it. Unfortunately the build didn't pass so so we
will be trying to figure out what's going on.

You can expect the release maybe in the next hours, definitely this week. It
depends how difficult it is to figure out what's going on.

---

### Question

#### ORY Project: Kratos

#### Is there any way to specify the schema_id to render the proper form inputs which belong to the specified schema?

For example I have an employee and customer schema and I would like to be able
to specify the schema when registering a new account from the selfservice
endpoints or public API or anywhere else where I can create a user.

More info in
[this thread](https://community.ory.sh/t/multiple-schemas-identities-seem-problematic/2251)

### Answer

So for registration, it's a little bit difficult because assume you have
customer schema and you have a admin schema. You don't really want someone who
signs up to be able to use the admin schema because they're not a regular user
or customer.

I think the best idea probably would be to create an issue in the Kratos repo
and explain the use case and then we can discuss some ideas.

Connected Issue: [kratos #765](https://github.com/ory/kratos/issues/765)

---

## Comments

# Comments/Feedback/Future Issues

# 21_10_2020

## Q&A

### Question

We had to get used to the terminology and what all the different systems do
because there's quite a lot to the ecosystem. Could you give me a broad
overview?

### Answer

We started out with Hydra, which is the protocol layer for open authorization
and open ID connect. And the reason we started there was that we were doing a
cloud native file sharing application at the time and it just got really
difficult to interface with Dropbox and Google Cloud and so on. The Go Community
was not so so big back then and we just wanted to do something that would be
good for Go developers to use.

But the deeper you get into open authorization and OAuth and OpenID Connect the
more complex it gets, the terminology, the structure of things, the processes or
flows. So we ended up completely redoing Hydra two times just because the more
we got into it, the more we knew and learned.

Then probably the best place to start is with Kratos, which is how you build
your credentials, your username, password and all the flows around that.

Alot of companies don't need auth and open ID connect because they're not using
cloud native services. So here Kratos is a great fit. I think it's really an
amazing utility, that we're soon going to offer as a cloud service also, by the
way. Then Hydra I just explained that, and also we have oathkeeper. Oathkeeper
is an implementation of Google beyondcorp reverse proxy plus some rules about
how and why to access API, so when you use Json web tokens against an API for
OAuth, there's a number of rules etc. It could be in the payload or it could be
just general rules about API access that you want to implement, so that's a zero
trust API access infrastructure.

And last but not least there are different models out there for role-based
access management. For instance ORY Keto is an implementation basically
mimicking the AWS IAM. And now if you look at the newest sort of PR in the Keto
project we are tackling this at a much bigger level and implementing or trying
to implement something that Google calls Zanzibar, which is a more sort of very
low latency access management and role-based control system. So you write the
rules and we basically create an infrastructure that lets you manage that at
planet scale.

---

### Question

We are reading that jobs in Kratos are not being encouraged anymore. Why is
that?

### Answer

The reason for that is it's Hydra uses a special flavor of jobs before you get
to the API. The reason for that is to obfuscate some information and also make
it more compatible with some of the other security approaches we have including
oathkeeper, but when it's through the API it then turns into a normal Json web
token. So these are Open Standards, but they give you a lot of, let's say
flexibility, especially on how you want to configure the payload.

nd they have a very simple structure, there's a record for how it's been made,
what algorithm the payload uses and the signature and we're not going to stray
far away from that at all because that's how you guarantee interoperability
amongst different systems. So we do take some liberties within Hydra of making
those tokens as it's called "ORY flavoured" until they get to the API.

There's also some situations where it's not recommendable to use jobs. There's
actually lots of situations just because it's a new area and it's emerging. And
you know, there is not enough implementation experience with it.

So if you have architectural questions and you want to ask them, you can do that
an issue or something else but be confident that we've had tons of conversations
about this and the implementation of Hydra is now over five years old.

---

### Question

Our main fear is that you guys might be closing or changing all the Open
Standards to some closed standard of security authorization.

### Answer by Thomas

We're not interested in violating those standards actually in any way because
that's the whole basis of our work too. I mean the IEEE standard and the IETF
standard and the w3c standard are our standards. That doesn't mean that the ORY
projects implement everything and by the way we implement a lot of things based
on how companies are using these things, but when we implement it it is exactly
in accordance with the standard. And the ORY open source projects too are the
codebase from that we build our products, so we are relying on them to stay open
source.

## Comments

---
